Hello everyone and welcome back to this
video on fine-tuning GPT40 mini. So
while this week focuses more on
fine-tuning um open weights models that
you download from hugging face and you
will have to um do everything yourself,
I think it's a very good start uh if you
learn how to fine-tune some model via a
managed service because you don't need
to understand a lot of the things that's
uh happening behind the scenes. So,
OpenAI allows you to fine-tune their
models and uh we will be doing this by
uploading our data to OpenAI and uh they
will do the finetuning for us. So, in
this lesson um we will run the GPT4 mini
on the data set before finetuning and we
will see how it performs and then we
will fine-tune the model, run it again
and uh see if fine-tuning actually makes
uh a difference. So, let's see how we
can do this.
So keep in mind that in order to run
this uh you have to have an open AI key.
So unfortunately this is not free. Uh so
make sure you have your own key if you
want to run this uh yourself. And um we
will have uh different stages. So the
first thing that we need to do in order
to do this is to prepare our data. So um
OpenAI expects the data to be in a
specific format. They expect it to be a
JSONL um a JSONL data set. So in our
case, we are still working with the uh
configuration file. We showed this
before. So uh if you look here at uh the
config. This is what we're using. We're
just passing in the name of the data
set. And uh this is what we are reading
here. And uh then we have to uh put this
in some format. This is what's done here
by uh the prepare openi JSON l. What
this does is it downloads the data from
hunting face and then it creates a list
of samples. So what openi expects is um
a JSON file where each sample is on one
line and each sample has to have a
system uh message, user message and
assistant message and uh this is what
openi expects and you have to um um give
them like the training file and
optionally a validation file. So uh this
is what we will be doing here. So if you
run this uh script you will see that um
it will have multiple options. The first
one is to prepare the data set for
fine-tuning. So I will hit one and then
uh run this. So you can see it's picking
up the uh name of the data set here
because we are uh putting this in the
config file. And then you can see um the
splits are saved um in the data
experiments folder. So if we go to data
and then experiments
uh you will see we have the open AAI
files inside there that's the name of
the data set and then we have train and
validation. Now if you look at the
training script, this is what we have.
It's a JSON L. Uh each sample is on one
line. Uh it contains the system prompt
which again we define in the uh
configuration file. And then you have
the dialogue and at the very end you
have the um the actual summary.
So I'm not going to go uh through every
little detail in the code, but basically
this is what it does. And uh you should
be able to do the same thing um if you
are uh strong in programming. I think
it's a fairly simple task to convert the
data set uh into this format. Now that
you have the data um what we can do is
fine-tune the model. So before we do any
finetuning, let's just run the
evaluation first on the base model and
then we will uh fine-tune it and uh run
the evaluation again. So here I want to
evaluate the base model. So I will be
typing three. And then it asks you
either for the name of the model that
you want to run directly or a fine-tuned
ID. In this case, we haven't done any
finetuning yet. So I will just type in
the name of the LLM and uh I will run
this.
So um you will see it will start
evaluating on the 200 samples of the
validation set. And once this is done um
we will have our uh metrics.
So after evaluation is done you can see
we now have our metrics 40% for rouge
one 15 for rouge 2 and 31 for rouge l.
And then these metrics and predictions
will be stored uh in the files in the
output directory. So if you go here uh
you'll see these uh two files created
for you. And keep in mind you don't need
collab in order to run this because
nothing is running on your site. This is
one of the advantages uh of using uh LLM
providers that you don't have to worry
about running these things. And that's
why I'm I'm running this locally. So now
we can compare this uh with what we had
from the llama model. So if you look
here, this is the uh notebooks
directory. This is uh our first lesson.
So these are the results that we got
from the llama model. uh you can see
rouge one was uh 35% but for uh GPT for
OM it was 40 so it's uh it's better for
Rouge 2 again GPT uh is better and for R
L GPT is better so that shows you that
uh these paid models um are actually
better than open weights uh ones but
this is at the cost of having to pay for
these models and the other advantage is
of course you don't need to worry that
worry that much about running these
models yourself but also keep in mind
that um you had to send the data over
the network uh to open AAI and uh for
some applications this will not be this
will not be possible. So um yeah if data
privacy is a concern uh you won't be
able to uh go with this approach.
Okay. So uh these results are for the
base model without any finetuning. Now
uh let's do some finetuning. So I want
to run a fine-tuning job. For this I
will type two.
And uh you can see it starts uploading
the files directly. Remember we um in
the experiments we created two files
train and validation. This code is set
up to take in these files and upload
them uh directly to OpenAI. So now uh
these files are being uploaded and then
the job will start.
So now the files are uploaded and then
the uh fine-tuning job started. So now
if you go to um the OpenAI console and
you look at the finetuning tab, you'll
see we have a job here. Uh that's u
that's working currently. It's
validating the files and then it will
start the actual finetuning job. This is
the LLM that we're fine-tuning. These
are the hyperparameters that we are
using. In this case we will just um do a
single experiment. So um if you're
curious what would happen if you uh
change these feel free to uh try it
yourself. We are restricting it to a
single epoch. Uh because these jobs uh
are somewhat costly compared to just um
like uh API calls to a normal LM fine
tuning is is more costly and uh it
depends on the size of your data and the
number of epochs uh you choose. So,
we're keeping it to one uh just to make
it uh cheaper. And um you'll see that at
the end when this job is done, there
will be some uh charts here that we will
look at. So, I'll pause the video here
and I'll come back once this is done.
So, now the training job is done. If you
scroll down there, you will see the loss
and accuracy charts. You'll see
generally the loss is decreasing,
accuracy is increasing. And uh keep in
mind that this is um this is a strong
model compared to uh the llama 1B. So
the loss starts from uh I think four or
4.1 which is considered a high number
but still the performance was very good
like the rouge scores were good. So now
if you see the loss decreasing this
means that um the model is getting even
better um at this data set and uh yeah
you can see there is the green curve and
there is the um purple one. So this is
the validation loss. The purple curve is
uh the validation loss which is um
evaluated once every while. So you can
see sometimes even the validation loss
is lower than the training which is
generally a good sign. So um yeah this
is how you fine-tune a model and then at
the end uh they give you this model ID
uh which you can then use in order to uh
call this model and get responses from
your fine-tuned model. So let's uh let's
see how it performs.
So now we go back to our script and we
want to evaluate uh a model. This time I
will enter the ID which means uh I will
be fine-tuning uh sorry I'll be
evaluating the fine-tuned model. So um
let's see.
So now the evaluation is done and here
are the numbers. So um you can take a
look here side by side. This is the
fine-tuned model and this is the base
one. So you can see uh in all of the
rouge variations the fine-tuned model is
actually better um all the numbers
increased. So this shows that u the
fine-tuned model actually performs uh
better than the base one if you want to
take a look at the predictions. So these
are the predictions of the fine-tuned
model. Um yeah I would uh expect them to
be very short because this is the style
of the data set. So for example this is
one generation.
Um let's take a look at this. Now it's a
lot shorter again. So yeah, here for
example this one.
So yeah, again it's short. So you can
see um the behavior or the the structure
of the outputs is completely different.
And this is u this is the uh result of
fine-tuning this model on this data set.
So um I think that was uh good to know
that you can fine-tune uh these models.
the um effort that you need in order to
do this is very minimal. You just need
to upload your data and uh they will do
it for you. So uh yeah, I think this was
a very nice exercise. So um that's it
for this video. I hope you found that
useful and I'll see you in the next one.